On February 6th, 2018, Elon Musk and his company SpaceX
launched the first car into space. Elon's personal
Tesla Roadster is on an infinite loop of David Bowie's
"Space Oddity." You can even track its location!

In 2007, China deliberately destroyed one of their
weather satellites to test a new weapon. That test
contributed to over 3,000 pieces of space debris,
the largest ever tracked.

A piece of space debris can reach speeds of
4.3 to 5 miles per second. That's nearly 7 times faster
than a bullet and just about the equivalent of being
hit by a bowling ball moving at 300 miles per hour.

There are about 4,700 satellites still in space,
but only an approximate 1,800 are still working.

Donald Kessler, a NASA scientist, imagined what is
now known as "Kessler Syndrome" in which he theorized
that continuous collisions of man-made objects in space
will potentially destroy telecommunications and keep
humanity trapped on Earth.

On February 10, 2009, a privately owned American
communication satellite, Iridium-33, accidentally crashed
into a Russian military satellite, Kosmos 2251, marking
the first ever accidental in-orbit collision.

In one year, the International Space Station had to
coordinate three shifts in position to avoid disastrous
collisions with space debris, a feat that requires days of effort.

In 1998, one satellite failed and more than 90% of all the
pagers in the world stopped working, a sneak peek of the
consequences that space debris could have if it collides
with our technology.

According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, an average total between 200 - 400 tracked
space debris enter Earth's atmosphere every year.

Most of the debris burns up upon reentry, but if it doesn't,
don't worry! Your chances of getting hit by a falling piece
of space waste is 10 million times smaller than the annual
odds of being struck by lightning.

Scientists in Beijing, China are working on a way to turn
orbital waste into fuel by turning debris into a plasma
of positive ions and electrons through high temperatures.

The U.S. Air Force is working on a program called Space
Fence to help track the current amount of debris in orbit
and extend a "virtual fence" around the planet.

The U.S. government logged 655 "emergency-reportable"
alerts to satellite operators for potential collisions
with space debris.

In September of 2018, scientists successfully tested
a net to help snag orbiting debris and burn it in
Earth's atmosphere.

There are almost 10,000 metric tons of man-made
space waste currently orbiting our planet.

In 1979, chunks of the 77-tonne SkyLab space station
of the US disintegrated over Western Australia. While
residents and space enthusiasts gathered to collect some
souvenirs, the town officials weren't too happy and they
fined NASA $400 for littering.